## Meme Cataloger

This is a project I am working on by myself with the goals of (1) creating something I want to use and (2) challening myself/learning more about programming.  I am using [ReactJS](https://react.dev/) as the frontend and Python [Django](docs.djangoproject.com) as the backend.

In terms of usability, the eventual goal of this project is for it to replace Google Photos as my place to store silly/funny internet media that I've saved, and for this project to have a better system for organizing and quickly finding my saved media.

In terms of programming experience, I would love for this project to be a showcase of what I can do in React and Python for potential employment opportunities, but the more realistic goal for me right now is simply to encounter real-world problems to spark reserach and learning.

### Tools, Packages and Frameworks I am using
 1. [ReactJS](https://react.dev/) which has been the best intro to JavaScript that I could ask for, in that it's JavaScript that makes sense to a Python native.
 2. [Channels for Django](https://channels.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (for Websockets) which has been immensely helpful for getting instant updates to a page, much more quickly and simply than standard HTTP requests.  There is a single aspect of the site still running on classic HTTP (the image uploader) and I'm considering switching to Websockets for this as well.  If you have tips/advice on Websocket security, I'd love to learn anything I can about it!
 3. [Material UI](https://mui.com/material-ui/getting-started/) which has been crucial for quickly implementing components that look better than I deserve to look.
 4. [Conventional Commits](conventionalcommits.org) which I have not yet needed to call upon for organizational/archival purposes, but has helped me to better structure my commits and commit messages.
 7. [Django](docs.djangoproject.com) for the backend, which has my favorite docs of all time (Material UI could learn a thing or two).  I am continually impressed by this framework, and it has had an outsized impact on the way I understand programming.

### Things I'm looking to learn/work on next
 1. Automated testing is currently top of the list for urgency, as this project is juuuuust passing that hump where I can no longer feasibly manually test everything before every commit.  Automated regression testing would be amazing (not to mention, a requirement if I ever intend to show this off as proof that I know what I'm doing with this whole programming thing).  I am already familiar with [Selenium](https://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/) and will absolutely be using it for this, and I've written tests for Python code using the [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/8.2.x/) package, but I'm lacking in knowledge of how to unit test React components and looking forward to learning more about it.
 2. Dockertization/Containerization is what I am currently planning on as a next stop for this project, as I believe it will help in setting up GitHub workflows that will automate that testing I just mentioned.  Not to mention help with synchronizing all the various aspects of this project on my desktop and laptop environments, which have wildly different versions of my database right now (an unfortunate reality that regularly drives me batty).
 3. Azure offerings for deployment, likely a PaaS solution, if it can run those aforementioned Docker containers nicely.  I'm nowhere near being ready to release this to the vicious world of cyberattacks yet (and you'll notice that security is not yet on this list because that is how unready I am) but it's something I'd like to tamp down and have an idea of where I'm going, especially for any architechting decisions I'm going to have to make that may need to factor in how deployment will work.
 4. User maintenance, which is kind of my "cybersecurity lite" for the time being as I get ready to ramp up to real deployment.  I think this topic will lend itself well to making more clear to me exactly what and where I need to defend in a cybersecurity context, and I can jump off into the weeds from there.  (Also if you are reading this as someone new to the world of computer nerds, I highly recommend the Darknet Diaries podcast for getting an idea of just what kinds of monsters and attacks are out there that you need to consider.  And the storytelling is A+ world-class top-notch.)

If you have any suggestions, questions, ideas, or just want to say hi, feel free to raise an issue on this repo and we can connect from there!
